Oh yeah.
So let's discuss about the if history and backwards is in the attitude graphs.
Right.
So the main point that we are working over in director graph that will also work in a negative light.
So the thing is that the logic that will abound actually drop it all to work in a negative graph, but
it is not doing vice versa, right?
So for directed graph also works in a negative rate and not vice versa.
It's an negative graph basically.
So.
Let me give you one example eight so that you can easily understand why that would work or not work.
So let's say I have this one to do this and directed it, and from the director that's from 2 to 3.
And then they see that directing it from 1 to 3, not they're doing two guys.
Is there a cycle in this?
Or instead, let's just change the numbers.
Let's just change the numbers.
So let's call it three.
Let's call it one.
Let's call it two.
So is there a cycling race in this?
Graph.
No right in this regard.
There is no second.
So how am I figuring this out?
Because there is no baggage.
Right.
But if I perform this DFC approach in this directed graph, then I will see that the algorithm that
we have already coded out for undirected graphs when it is here.
Right.
This will give me true that yes, the cycle is there.
How and why?
Let's see.
So this is what happens is let's start started the office from one.
But from when I cannot go anywhere.
Right.
But then I come to.
To.
I started underneath this room to see.
Initially, I started.
If it's from one.
From when I cannot go to anywhere.
Then the loop will move forward.
And then I'll start in their office from the right sector.
Which period is zero?
Right.
Because it's being started from two.
Now is what happens is from two it will go to one because there is this directory as from one.
So in two doesn't distancing.
We had one right and one was already visited.
Can we see this?
Yeah.
See?
One was already visited.
That means we'll go in as if this.
Rabies TB having as from 2 to 1 and when was already visited.
So we won't be performing a DFS on when it's already visited.
Right.
Really going this as if case that it is already visited and also one is not parent of two by because
parent of two was passed zero.
Right.
We've been enough to his boss zero and one was not equal to zero.
That means we will get a cycle.
But is there a cycle?
You guys, let's talk about only this graph.
Only this is there is no.
Right.
So let me like.
The smallest example.
This is so this is a graph of two edges.
So the two nodes and one edge and the direction is this 2 to 1.
Nate.
So.
Here.
What I'm learning is the cycle is not fun, right?
So let's see what what is that thing going on in there?
Right.
First.
Okay, so here I am, made up.
Back to the graph.
Sorry, I have to, like, come in this thing out and then it will become a dedicated graph.
So let's build it again and we can see is this has been fun, right?
This is an input of directed graph from x.
I am pushing back on divide there differently from x2y on the right.
And what is the graph?
The graph is just this one edge from 2 to 1 and it is saying that yes, the sex lesbian found it y because
as were literally one is already visited and from two there is a as 211 is visited and not equal to
parent.
So it will say, yes, this actually has been found and it is going backwards.
But that's not absolutely true.
Right.
Let me off.
Now I see this somewhere.
Mm.
Just a second.
Yeah.
So I'd say world leaders.
Cool.
So this doesn't work for directed graphs.
I need to work now.
Let's discuss one particular approach which will work for both director as well as under glass.
Right.
So let's make that approach.
Let's understand that approach first.
Right.
So what was the definition of baggage that I gave you that?
So again, it's a very easy thing that Beck is an edge, which is finding from some current note, whatever
the current notice to one of its ancestors.
I hope you remember I said the word ancestors hate it and that I should not be able to experience rain.
So I've got this node which is pointing from current to one of its ancestors.
What is an ancestor?
Let's talk about what is an ancestor, right?
Whenever I am whenever I talk about trees, that means let's talk about this tree.
Right.
So guys here, if I start, if I make one as a root note and started the first search.
So from when I go to I'll go to the tree, I'll go to 48.
So basically three is a parent of four, two is an ancestor of four and one of those an ancestor of.
All right.
So what are the ancestors of a particular node?
All those nodes which lie.
And sisters and sisters.
Nodes which lie between.
I would lie on the board.
From.
Root.
To child.
Okay.
So from root to tail, whichever node lies on the barred from.
In order to tell their court their Thomas ancestors.
Right.
So him and sisters are one, two and three.
And of course, he's also a parent.
Eight.
Good.
So I hope this part is clear.
What are and.
Right.
So, guys, let's come back to this simple graph.
So here we can see that one was visiting and one was not pairing, but it was not an ancestor of two.
Right.
Because when I started here first from two, then two is only the road, not road.
And then from two, I cannot go anywhere.
Right.
Because one is already visited two guys.
The important time that we are having here is that Beckett will be pointing towards insistence.
So here we can see coming back to the above example, that one was an ancestor of three because from
one I went to two.
Then I came to three.
Then there's a nest pointing backwards.
Right.
And four was an ancestor of seven.
They always are back, as will be pointing to one of its ancestors, which is behind it.
What is an ancestor?
Ancestor is a node which is between.
Which is in the bottom drawer due to the current.
Cool guys.
So here, let us discuss some spatial properties of the first search engine sisters combined.
This is a very unique piece that you will not see everywhere, but it will come handy a lot.
Right?
So let's discuss this very special property.
Property of ancestors and beliefs.
It's very interesting.
Right.
So the property is very simple that we know how does a DFS work?
It works by using it.
It goes on trade, it creates gold stacks in the memory.
Right.
So if there is a node which is an ancestor of the current node, right, then that node has to be in
the call stack when it comes to the current node.
Right.
So ancestor.
Has to be.
In the golf stick.
When?
I reach.
The child or the current or.
So let me explain you this point.
Right?
What does this mean?
What does the call stack means?
I hope you know, where does it go?
Stack mean?
But still, let's discuss it.
This is a stack, right?
So whenever we are going over recursion and we call different equations.
So what happened called stack builds up.
Right.
That means if I say if I call factorial recursion, then there will be some call seg that will be below.
And then we will come back from this call.
Stack eight.
So here what happens is let's make a very, very simple graph.
One, two.
Three, four.
And it's a five and it's a six.
Cool.
And I'm like, I'm like, no, starting DFS from one.
So what happens is when I start for DFS from when the DFS stack will be built.
So I'll go to one over here.
The first one will come in Macau, say, great, right now I'm the first node.
Then from one I'll go to.
A new staggered reader.
I wonder, do I am traversing to do right?
What are the caustic means that this particular thing, this one hole function will be created with
the terms the office of to Goma, the parent that is one eight.
Now, guys, when I go to three, let's go to three.
Good.
Now we can notice a very special thing here.
A very special trick or a thing or whatever you call it, that when I'm on tree, whatever is the topmost
node in the cause stack at any point of time, whatever is the topmost note of the call stick, the
below notes will always represent its ancestors.
These are its and sisters.
Eight.
Frankly speaking, if this recursion and God sake is not clear to you, the if is not clear to you.
Then do more questions.
Practice more questions on the office and the government.
Right.
Because after this, we will only be using the questions.
Eight.
Well.
So I hope you have understood this part that whatever is the topmost nor right verdict of what's not
in the stack means that currently I'm on this note and all the other notes are the.
Ancestors of the current no rate.
So after today, I won't be able to go anywhere.
So three will be returning back.
What does return back means?
When I.
When I'm making a function and the function call and I return back, I go back.
So if I don't write this or didn't.
It is same as a running back because this function is.
Ending.
It has completed its work.
They.
So I wrote Baghdad I for 70 to.
I went to I went to three.
I came back to do now.
Now two is on the job right now.
From two, I'm going to four.
So when I come to fort, as we can see again doing Varnado.
Ancestors of food.
Right.
Now from what I'm going to five again, we can see one, two in four transistors of five.
So the idea of this particular part.
This whole part is in the girl's name.
There are very beautiful cushions that are made from this particular topic and it's only a kick start.
I saw like kick started on B and the last question.
Or it is only last question of 2021.
It was completely based on this.
Like what?
All the ancestors.
We want to find the.
Nothing else.
Right.
And.
Yeah.
So.
Here we are.
Now go.
Go back from 5 to 4.
Coming back to four.
Coming back to two, because we don't have anywhere to go.
Coming back to one.
Now we have come back to one.
I will go to six because six was not visited.
Now, again, we can see we have this one as an ancestor of six lives.
So whatever nought is on the top of the stack.
All the other ancestors are in the cold state.
Northern England called staying.
Only the ancestors are in the coal state.
Always remember that.
Yeah.
So now we have got this spatial property of ancestors and DFS that we can easily find out which is an
ancestor of an other node.
By performing a DFS load.
And guys, it's a very simple thing that if I'm considering one as a route, more than two is in instead
of three.
But if I consider four as a route node for three, two and one nowadays we can easily see that three
becomes instead of two.
Eight and sisters are completely dependent on their beliefs tree the root of their delivery.
Whatever the rule you are choosing, right?
If you are choosing some other node as the root, then that becomes then the ancestors change and vice
versa.
So this is again a very simple thing to notice that water ancestors, how to find ancestors.
Again, we have got this.
We have community offers, whatever the nodes in the cold stack.
See, we cannot xisco stick.
Right.
But we can have some spatial.
Uh, markings.
Right.
We're going to.
Okay.
We got electricity back.
Well.
So we have this special markings which will help us understand ancestors that these are the ancestors
of caring or good.
So what are those markings?
What we will do is.
For every note, we will divide it into three parts.
Note We will color the note, basically.
So if I'm saying I have a note, then I'll say that we have three parts of this note and that it is
visited.
It is not visited.
And the third is it is in.
Biotech.
But we have three things here.
Right, that is honored.
Let's let's it does not zero means that it is not visited.
And it is also not in.
It's not visited.
Okay.
Let me try it properly.
So we have three states, right?
By these states, we can easily understand that the current notice visited or it is it is visited and
that means it is already visited or not.
It is in the caustic or not or it is yet to be visited.
Right.
So zero means that it is yet to be visited.
Well, now one means that.
Uh.
What does one means?
Yeah, one means that it is visited.
And in golf stick.
Rape and murder still means that it is visited.
So I don't visit it again.
And it is not in caustic and not in.
Called Steck.
So what I'm trying to do here is I'm trying to give three states to all the nodes.
Okay.
So how to give this seriously, guys?
It's very, very easy, right?
Whenever I come to a node, I will it.
When I say this visit, it is equal to one day.
That means right now the node is now called stick.
Because it is.
We have come to this node and it is visited.
That is a one guess.
And when I leave this node here, I'll make it very easy.
Right.
It is anywhere linear that it is visited equals to do so.
What this tool means that it is already being visited.
It is visited and it is not in caused by.
It does not even call say because we are leaving it to the events we are marking it visited.
It goes to two so that we don't visit it again.
Right.
And we'll simply put it on back here later.
Well, there is a very just a very small change.
And this small change will help us understand a lot of things for dedicated groups.
Right.
So what we do over here is we perform at the office well in good.
We started the office.
Whenever I'm going in and whenever I'm coming to a normal market, one that means it is visited, visited
and.
Engel stick.
And this is visited and not in golf stick because after this I'm coming back from it.
Right?
I'm going back from it.
So guys know, what is the definition of a baggage?
Okay.
Let's come on to this DFS part.
So we are going there does NZ list of some current node.
So if the existing node is not visited, then simply performative is cool.
If they're just ignored as not visited by former DFS, go to it.
Or we can also write it for our understanding.
Seek that visitor of X is zero.
If it was not visited, go to it of under DFS perform regular things.
Otherwise it was visited at the visit was visited and as I said.
That package all points twin sisters and not bearings.
Right.
So as well we say that X should not be equal to parent and visited of x should be equal to how much?
Think about it, guys.
It should be called Stack.
What does in go take means it is minus one.
Right and visited.
I should be equal to one and not to write more.
Just two means that I have already left it.
So this particular algorithm, this particular DFS of mocking it one, mocking it two, and checking
that whether an ordinary course take or not by just checking you ever the visited of access one not
not a this will help us detect sagging in directed graphs.
Now this will help us understand the concept of back edges in directed end edited graphs in both the
graph.
This will work.
If you remember in the previous lecture we were getting a back is from.
We are getting a package from 4 to 7 dogs and 7 to 4 also.
Right.
But that's not possible, right?
We cannot have two back engines.
If I fix the route, then we can only have one package that is from 7 to 4.
This will also solve my problem of the packages.
Will.
In undated graphs.
So, guys, this was about addicted enough.
And let me run over this case.
Let's run this current algorithm over this case.
Right.
So what happens is firstly I go to one, I market one, I cannot go to any of their descent, then I
market to win, live it.
So it's visited has been marked to two ways.
Well, then I go to to a market one and then there's this edge which is pointing to one.
So goes once visited is equal to two.
Right.
So let's come back here.
So is it visited equal to zero?
Sorry.
No.
It is not equal to zero.
Then we will win this elseif.
It is not equal to parent.
Right.
Of course one is not equal to parent of two.
Because parent of two is zero.
Right?
For now, because they pass zero on the new device.
And it's visited of one equal to one.
No, that means one is not in the coal state.
That means one is not then sister of two.
So this is not a package.
So we won't go inside this elusive.
I hope you are getting the point.
All right.
So let's again, let's run on this algorithm.
Listen, this algorithm on this particular example.
So in Italy, we go to one, we market one, then we leave it because we're not able to go in.
We market two, then we go to two.
And from do I cannot go to anywhere.
So we market.
One cannot go anywhere.
Market to limit.
Then we go to three.
From three, I come here.
Ticky, I can go to two or not.
I cannot go to two.
And also it's not a package because it is not in the call stick and simply I'll come back from the DFS
from three.
So there's no cycle here.
Right.
And now let's talk about a psychic is in addicted girl.
How to detect the segregation addicted black rate.
So I went to one market.
When I went to Madrid one, I went to three magnet one.
Now from three I can see that I can go to one and one was marked one.
That means it is in.
Full stack.
That means it is an ancestor of tree.
So this adds from 3 to 1 is a backwards.
Always because one is in the coastguard, as we mark one, we have not left one.
Now, after this, we have got a package and I will return back.
So will Mark three.
Yes, two.
Will Mark the West Wing in one is to return back.
I hope you are understanding this.
These are the basics of religion.
India is mocking, mocking them, understanding whether they are in the God's take or not.
Well, guys, so let's run this algorithm on this graph that we have media and let's say this is our
negative group.
So as I told you, this algorithm will work on addicted and addicted both graphs.
So let's.
See out whatever the package is we are getting.
I remember we used to go get we used to get for my kids is right there it is to do one and then 1 to
2 and then 4 to 7, two, four and 4 to 7, eight.
But that's not true.
We will have only packages which have burned out.
Then they are pointing backwards.
Okay.
So we only have two packages now.
There is from 2 to 1 and 7 to 4 in the original graph.
Yeah, I guess so.
Forget about the last algorithm that we discussed about finding packages.
Keep this algorithm in mind.
There's only one thing that I did that was I might visited to be able to do here, which tells us that
it has been visited.
Don't visit it again.
Eight Because here I'll write if visited I was from zero eight.
So this tells me this the complexity of the code remains often only because I'm marking it to I'm not
visiting it again.
Right.
And secondly, we check whether or not is in equal state or not.
If it is in a classic, I gotta.
Package.
This is the final record of finding packages.
Clear, guys.
So this can be used in both vector and grass.
It will work in both the grass and.
A very simple algorithm will and grace, and soon the next part.